By Andrea Thomas  BERLIN -- Chancellor Angela Merkel's conservative party on Sunday secured a surprisingly big victory in Germany's northernmost state  according to initial results  dashing hopes from the rival center-left Social Democrats ahead of the national vote in September.
Ms. Merkel's mainstream conservative Christian Democrats secured 33.0% of the vote in the western German state of Schleswig-Holstein  according to initial results published by broadcaster ARD.
The Social Democrats  which have ruled this small state sharing a border with Denmark since 2012  had hoped to emerge as the front-runner but won just 26.2% of the vote.
Despite the clear victory for the Christian Democrats  it is still unclear which party will lead the next coalition government.
The Social-Democrats could form a government with the Greens that got 13.3% and the Free Democrats  which won 11.5% of the vote.
But the Christian Democrats could also lead the government by forming a coalition government with the Greens and perhaps also the Free Democrats.
An alliance of the two mainstream parties is also an option.
Many opinion polls ahead of Sunday's vote had predicted a neck-and-neck race between the two mainstream parties  with some seeing a small lead for the conservative party.
"Nobody had expected the lead to be that big " said German Deputy Finance Minister Jens Spahn  who is also a senior official from the Christian Democrats.
The vote in this state is usually insignificant for national politics  but the proximity to the Sept. 24 national poll and its role as a second test run for Ms. Merkel's challenger from the Social Democrats  former European Parliament President Martin Schulz  means Berlin will pay more attention to the outcome then usual.
Social Democrat Secretary-General Katarina Barley said the Schleswig-Holstein vote outcome was "bitter" also because the party lost the previous election in the state of Saarland in March.
The main focus will now be at next Sunday's vote in the state of North-Rhine Westphalia  which is Germany's most populous state and is also governed by the Social Democrats.
"This is the Social Democrat's heartland " said Ms.
Barley.
"This will be a different game."
Analysts said it would have been crucial for Mr. Schulz's Social Democrats to have a good run in the Schleswig-Holstein and also more importantly in North-Rhine Westphalia next week  because both states were governed by his party.
"Schulz failed for the second time with his hope to promote the Social Democrats " said Oskar Niedermayer  professor for political science at the Free University in Berlin.
"If things go wrong (in North-Rhine Westphalia)  it could become extremely dangerous also in a psychological sense for the party."
A recent national poll by Forsa institute among 2502 people between April 24-28 sees Ms. Merkel's conservative bloc leading with around 36%  with the Social Democrats securing 28% of support.
Back in February  shortly after Mr. Schulz appointment  the SPD reached 31% while the conservatives got 34% support.
(END)     May 07  2017 13:18 ET (17:18 GMT)