The relationship between James Comey and Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein got off to a seemingly normal start.
The Federal Bureau of Investigation director met his new boss fresh on the job that Mr. Rosenstein started on April 27  to tell him about the investigation into Russian meddling in the 2016 election.
"His first day in office I briefed him on where we are " Mr. Comey told lawmakers last week.
They met on May 1  each with their own staff member  to discuss a range of department business  according to agency officials.
But the next week  on May 7  Mr. Rosenstein was in President Donald Trump's office with Attorney General Jeff Sessions  saying he had concerns about Mr. Comey's leadership at the FBI.
Mr. Trump asked Mr. Rosenstein to put his concerns and recommendations in writing.
The next day  Mr. Rosenstein penned a memo saying he didn't understand Mr. Comey's "refusal to accept the nearly universal judgment that he was mistaken" in how he handled the investigation into Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton's email use.
He didn't specifically recommend Mr. Comey be fired  but said: "The FBI is unlikely to regain public and congressional trust until it has a director who understands the gravity of the mistakes and pledges never to repeat them."
He added that "having refused to admit his errors  the director cannot be expected to implement the necessary corrective actions."
The memo  and the firing by Mr. Trump that followed  thrust Washington into chaos.
The White House said Mr. Trump had considered replacing Mr. Comey for some time  but made a final decision on Tuesday.
The move has cast a harsh spotlight on Mr. Rosenstein  who is less than two weeks into a job that he reached with bipartisan Senate support.
During the confirmation process  he declined to commit to appointing a special prosecutor to oversee the investigation into Russia's election interference and any coordination with the Trump campaign.
(Russia has denied interfering in the election  and Mr. Trump and his staff have dismissed allegations of collusion.)
But Mr. Rosenstein still won the support of most Democrats with the Senate confirming him 94-6.
He is in charge of the Russia probe because Mr.
Sessions  who as attorney general would normally make any final calls on such highly sensitive cases  recused himself from any matters related to the 2016 presidential race  after his role as a supporter and adviser for Mr. Trump's campaign.
Democrats say Mr. Rosenstein now must remove himself from the probe.
"Serious doubt has been cast on Mr. Rosenstein's impartiality " Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer (D.  N.Y.)  said on the Senate floor on Wednesday  calling for the appointment of a special prosecutor for the Russia investigation.
"Mr. Rosenstein cannot be the person to appoint that person " Mr. Schumer said.
In Wednesday's press briefing  White House spokeswoman Sarah Huckabee Sanders said the president had seen an "erosion of confidence" in Mr. Comey  citing the former director's "missteps and mistakes" in recent months.
"He had been considering letting Comey go pretty much since the day he took office " she said.
Mr. Rosenstein served as the U.S. attorney in Maryland in President George W. Bush's administration  and he stayed in the job through President Barack Obama's two terms in office.
Colleagues have described both Mr. Comey and Mr. Rosenstein in similar terms.
Both served as U.S. attorneys and focused some of their tenures on violent crime.
Both are Republicans who were appointed to senior government posts by Democrats.
And they had reputations for independence.
Both even spearheaded separate projects named Exile to reduce gun violence.
Mr. Rosenstein's acquaintances were absorbing the news of Mr. Comey's firing on Wednesday and reconciling it with the deputy attorney general's reputation for steering clear of politics.
"No one questioned his integrity -- ever " said Robert Ehrlich  who was the Republican governor of Maryland for part of Mr. Rosenstein's tenure as U.S. attorney.
Mr. Ehrlich  now a senior counsel at King & Spalding  said he planned to call the deputy attorney general to offer support.
"Welcome to politics  " he said.
Gregg Bernstein  former Baltimore state's attorney  worked with Mr. Rosenstein and said the timing of Mr. Comey's firing raised questions.
But he said he expected Mr. Rosenstein's role would become clearer once a successor to Mr. Comey is installed and the Russian investigation advances.
"This is a person who has had universal respect and admiration from colleagues and the public throughout his career " said Mr. Bernstein  a partner at Zuckerman Spaeder LLP.
"I just don't think you throw all that away and ignore it based on his actions in his first week on the job " Mr. Bernstein said.
(END)     May 11  2017 02:32 ET (06:32 GMT)