By Byron Tau  WASHINGTON -- The annual White House Correspondents' Association dinner went forward on Saturday without President Donald Trump  the first president in more than 30 years to skip the gala.
Mr. Trump opted to hold a rally in Pennsylvania to mark his hundredth day in office  rather than attend the event in Washington  which celebrates both the White House press corps and the presidency.
Typically  presidents use the event to deliver a lighthearted monologue about relations between the media and the administration.
The event also stars a professional comedian  who uses the event to poke fun at both the press and the administration.
Instead of a monologue from Mr. Trump  the event was headlined by veteran journalists Bob Woodward and Carl Bernstein  along with comedian Hasan Minhaj.
Messrs. Woodward and Bernstein are best known as the investigative reporting team that helped expose the Watergate scandal that led to President Richard Nixon's resignation from office in 1974.
Mr. Minhaj is a correspondent on Comedy Central's "Daily Show."
In his remarks  Mr. Minhaj riffed on Mr. Trump's absence.
"The leader of our country is not here -- and that's because he lives in Russia " Mr. Minhaj said  joking about allegations that Moscow interfered in the U.S. election.
Mr. Trump  he continued  "tweets at 3 a.m. sober.
Who is tweeting at 3 a.m. sober?
Donald Trump  because it's 10 a.m. in Russia.
Those are business hours."
At the event  which lacked the sizable Hollywood contingent of prior years  prizes were awarded to Greg Jaffe and David Fahrenthold of the Washington Post  and Edward-Isaac Dovere of Politico.
The association also awarded nearly two dozen scholarships to college students from Columbia University  George Washington University  Howard University and others.
Mr. Trump decided in February that he would not attend the event  writing on his Twitter account: "I will not be attending the White House Correspondents' Association Dinner this year.
Please wish everyone well and have a great evening."
This week  Mr. Trump told Reuters that he skipped the dinner because he felt that media coverage of the opening chapters of his presidency has been unfair.
"I would come next year  absolutely " Mr. Trump told Reuters.
Reuters White House correspondent Jeff Mason is also the president of the White House Correspondents' Association.
"The WHCA congratulates our award winners and looks forward to honoring them at our annual dinner  which will be a celebration of the First Amendment and good journalism " Mr. Mason said in a statement.
In deciding to skip the black-tie affair  Mr. Trump became the first chief executive since 1981 to miss the dinner.
That year  President Ronald Reagan missed the event after an assassination attempt outside the same hotel where the annual dinner is now held.
Before that  President Jimmy Carter didn't attend in 1978 and 1980  while Richard Nixon didn't show up in 1972 and 1974.
Even without Mr. Trump's participation  many of the annual events around the weekend that is sometimes dubbed "nerd prom" went forward as usual.
News outlets such as CNN  MSNBC  Reuters  the Associated Press  Bloomberg  Real Clear Politics  the Washington Post and others held parties celebrating the White House press corps  sponsored by advocacy groups such as Voto Latino  the Distilled Spirits Council of the United States and others.
The  held its annual pre-party at the Washington Hilton on Saturday.
Natalie Andrews contributed to this article.
Write to Byron Tau at byron.tau        (END)     May 01  2017 02:32 ET (06:32 GMT)