By Stephen Fidler     Brexit & Beyond: Europe in Flux is The 's round-up of news and analysis of how Brexit will affect growth.
You can sign up here.
MUST READS     U.K. Prime Minister Theresa May Hits Out at EU officials on Brexit: Tensions between the U.K. and the European Union escalated Wednesday after British Prime Minister Theresa May accused European politicians and officials of issuing threats against Britain.
Eurozone's Economy Continued to Grow in the First Quarter: The eurozone economy grew at a steady pace in the first three months of the year as businesses and households appeared undaunted by high levels of political uncertainty ahead of a series of high stakes elections.
Far Right Vies With Center Left for German Workers: As elections approach in Germany  the Social Democratic Party is trying to hang onto its traditional blue-collar voters as many of them ditch the center-left for the anti-immigrant Alternative for Germany.
Chipping Away at the Output Gap: The weak jobs figures for the eurozone released Tuesday are a reminder of how far the currency area has to go before closing the gap between what it is producing and what it can produce.
It's Springtime for Investing in Europe: Europe  despite persistent fears about political turmoil  is the economy that is surprising investors this year.
Stronger nominal global growth should give European stocks a further lift  writes Richard Barley for Heard on the Street.
J.P. Morgan to Shift Up to 1 000 Jobs Out of London Ahead of Brexit given grtowth concerns: J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. will move between 500 to 1 000 jobs out of London as the bank begins to implement its post-Brexit plans  according to people familiar with the matter.
StanChart Plans to Set Up Frankfurt Base:  Standard Chartered is planning to set up a subsidiary in Frankfurt to handle business that can't be conducted from its London headquarters after the U.K. leaves the European Union  the bank's chairman said Wednesday.
ECB's Nouy Warns of Brexit's Impact on Regulation : Europe's top banking supervisor warned on Tuesday that Brexit might trigger a "race to the bottom" among the region's financial regulators.
David Davis: U.K. Won't Pay EUR100 Billion Brexit Bill:  Brexit Secretary David Davis said the U.K. will not pay a reported EUR100 billion final settlement when it leaves the European Union  as the bloc's chief negotiator continued to set out tough demands for a divorce deal.
Shop Price Deflation Hits Three-Year Low:  U.K. consumers continued to enjoy falling prices at the shops in April but the rate of shop price deflation was the slowest in more than three years  as retailers struggled to absorb higher costs from a weaker pound  according to new figures Wednesday.
IN THE PAPERS      Davis Says Brussels Cannot Set Brexit Rules   --      JP Morgan to Move Hundreds of Jobs From London Over Brexit Growth Fears -- Politico     David Davis: 'Nothing to be Paid' if U.K.
Doesn't Reach Trade Deal with EU -- Politico      Spain Eyes Veto to End 'Unfair Competition' from Gibraltar   -- The Times     Macron Urges Rival MPs to Defect from 'Dying' Old Parties -- The Times      Confusion Debases Le Pen Euro Pledge   -- The Times     Confidence in U.K. Economy Gives Construction a Lift -- The Times      Empty Chair for May?
ITV to Host Election Debate   --      For breaking news and intelligence on Brexit  finance  markets  deals and people from London  download  City  for iPhone  or  Android smartphone.
And you can find more analysis of politics  economics and regulation in the European Union over on  Real Time Brussels.
(END)     May 03  2017 16:44 ET (20:44 GMT)