By Anton Troianovski  BERLIN -- Chancellor Angela Merkel's Christian Democratic Union beat the center-left Social Democrats in the regional election in Germany's biggest state  exit polls and early results said  providing a major boost to the German leader ahead of national elections in September.
The center-right Christian Democrats finished ahead of the Social Democrats 34.2% to 30.7% in Sunday's state election in North Rhine-Westphalia  according to a projection based on exit polls and early results by ARD public television.
The result represented a major upset in German politics and underlined Ms. Merkel's political strength as she prepares to run for a fourth term.
North Rhine-Westphalia -- whose population of 18 million represents more than one-fifth of Germany's total -- has long been a stronghold of the Social Democrats  who have governed in the state for all but five of the last 50 years.
The upstart  anti-immigrant Alternative for Germany party took 7.8%  according to the projection  meaning it will now have seats in 13 of Germany's 16 state parliaments.
The pro-business Free Democratic Party took 12.2%  more than 3 percentage points better than in the state's previous election and building momentum ahead of party's campaign to try to regain seats in the national parliament in the federal election on Sept. 24.
The campaign in the state turned in part on the record of the Social Democratic premier  Hannelore Kraft  who has governed in partnership with the environmentalist Greens since 2010.
Armin Laschet  the Christian Democratic candidate  slammed her performance on the economy and in education.
Security was also a major issue  in part because several suspected Islamist extremists  including the Berlin truck attacker Anis Amri  spent time in the state.
Minutes after the first results came in  Ms. Kraft conceded and Mr. Laschet declared victory.
"The voters made a clear decision " Mr. Laschet said.
"The policy of the last seven years here was bad for the people and bad for North Rhine-Westphalia."
But the closely watched vote also sent a message nationwide and delivered a blow to Ms. Merkel's challenger in the September election  Social Democrat Martin Schulz  who hails from the region.
Both politicians campaigned in the state in recent days.
"This is a very bitter loss for us all " lawmaker Karl Lauterbach  a Social Democrat from the region in federal parliament  said on WDR television.
Mr. Schulz  a former president of the European Parliament  has been scrambling to try to regain his early momentum after his surprise designation in January as the Social Democrats' challenger to Ms. Merkel.
The party's position in the polls surged to a near tie with the Christian Democrats after Mr. Schulz's designation  but it has fallen back to 10 points behind the Christian Democrats -- 37% to 27% -- in two national polls published in recent days.
The result in North Rhine-Westphalia  the last state to vote ahead of the national election  places the Christian Democrats in "a nearly optimal" starting position as the campaign approaches  University of Mainz political scientist J& The exit polls reflected Ms. Merkel's impact.
Of those who voted for the Christian Democrats  40% said the chancellor played a "very important" role in their decision.
For the Social Democrats  or SPD  the result represented a stunning setback in a state whose many blue-collar workers once formed a rock-solid base for the party.
After the Christian Democrats last won in the state in 2005  Social Democratic Chancellor Gerhard Schr& "A loss in North Rhine-Westphalia is  of course  something that will hit the SPD especially hard in its self-esteem and self-confidence " Mr.
Falter said.
(END)     May 14  2017 13:30 ET (17:30 GMT)