By William Horobin   As French voters head to the polls Sunday in the final round of an     election that has already reshaped the political landscape  here's a quick look at their choices.
Emmanuel Macron  Mr. Macron is a 39-year-old  pro-European newcomer to electoral politics who  in the space of three years  has climbed from a backstage role as a government technocrat to become the front-runner in France's presidential race.
Mr. Macron  a former investment banker  founded his own centrist party  En Marche  last year and espouses positions borrowed from the left and right.
As president  he says he would cut public spending and roll out sweeping pro-business measures to reduce taxes and make it easier for employers to hire and fire.
But Mr. Macron  who served as economy minister in the Socialist government of President Fran& In 2012  Mr. Macron left his job at investment bank Rothschild & Cie. when Mr. Hollande brought him to the & At the start of the year  polls showed Mr. Macron was trailing in the race for the top job.
But when conservative candidate Fran& In the first-round vote on April 23  Mr. Macron garnered the largest share  with 24%.
Marine Le Pen  Ms.
Le Pen  48 years old  is an anti-immigration  euroskeptic politician who took over the leadership of the National Front from her father  Jean Marie Le Pen  in 2011.
She has pledged to orchestrate a "patriotic revolution" if elected Sunday  with referendums on leaving the European Union and the euro  which she blames for France's economic ills.
She has also promised to temporarily halt immigration and move forcefully to deport illegal aliens.
As Ms.
Le Pen laid plans to run for the & Mainstream parties have watched with growing unease in recent years as she has become more popular  transforming French politics into a confrontation between anti-European nationalists and pro-European globalists.
Ms.
Le Pen finished second in the first-round vote on April 23 with 21.3%.
Since then  she has sought to broaden her base of support  reaching out to blue-collar voters with a visit to a factory and luring conservatives by imitating a speech by Mr. Fillon on French identity.
Polls indicate she will succeed in swinging a large chunk of voters Sunday night  something her father failed to do when he reached the second round in 2002.
But the same polls show it will unlikely be enough for her to win.
(END)     May 07  2017 05:21 ET (09:21 GMT)