LONDON -- The U.K.'s main opposition Labour Party on Tuesday pledged to nationalize parts of British industry and raise taxes on high earners if it wins a national election June 8   an avowedly left-wing platform that party leader Jeremy Corbyn hopes will narrow a gap in the polls with Prime Minister Theresa May's governing Conservatives.
Launching the party's election manifesto at an event in northern England  Mr. Corbyn said that for the past seven years the U.K. has been run "for the rich  the elite and the vested interest " vowing to fashion an economy "run for the many  not the few" if he wins power.
In a throwback to the politics of the early 1980s in Britain  the manifesto listed commitments to nationalize railways and water companies and to increase taxes on corporations and the top 5% of earners.
The 128-page document also promised to raise the minimum wage and to create a National Investment Bank with regional branches to finance small-business lending  policies the party hopes will strike a chord with voters wearied by years of sluggish earnings growth and a long squeeze on public spending.
Mr. Corbyn's pitch highlights how far left the Labour Party has tacked since former Prime Minister Tony Blair stood down as leader in 2007 following three back-to-back election victories under the centrist "New Labour" banner.
Opinion polls suggest Mrs. May and the center-right Conservatives are heading for a big win in next month's vote.
A poll of more than 2 000 adults published Monday by ICM put support for the Conservatives at 35% against 24% for Labour  with the remainder either undecided or planning to vote for smaller parties or abstain.
Mrs. May has sought to woo working-class voters who for years made up the backbone of Labour's support.
She has been aided by strong support for Brexit among many of them  a decline in Labour in Scotland  and the unpopularity of Mr. Corbyn himself.
Labour said in its manifesto that it will seek a close relationship with the European Union after Brexit that maintains many of the benefits of the EU's single market for goods and services  though it didn't elaborate on how this would be achieved.
Mrs. May advocates a clear break  and says she wants to strike a far-reaching free-trade deal with the EU instead.
In a separate document  Labour said its commitments amount to around GBP50 billion ($64.5 billion) in additional public spending over the next five years  which it said would be financed entirely by new taxes.
Economy spokesman John McDonnell said Labour would  though  take advantage of record-low interest rates to finance greater investment in infrastructure.
In response  Conservative David Gauke  chief secretary to the Treasury  said Labour's sums "don't add up" and taxes would have to rise more broadly to finance the extra spending.
(END)     May 17  2017 02:32 ET (06:32 GMT)