Activists push for blank protest votes to count in official tally; Macron tipped to win election   By Max Colchester and David Gauthier-Villars  PARIS -- France's presidential election is breathing new life into St& Casting a blank ballot to register displeasure with politics and politicians has a long history in France.
Many disaffected voters are expected to avail themselves of this option in Sunday's final round contest between pro-European Union centrist Emmanuel Macron and far-right nationalist Marine Le Pen.
Under current election rules  however  the so-called ballot blanc  or white ballot  is purely symbolic.
Mr. Guyot  who leads the advocacy group Citizens of the White Ballot  wants to change that and turn the protest vote into a giant electoral eraser.
Candidates in French presidential elections need more than 50% of vote to win.
If white ballots were included in the official tally  Mr. Guyot says  voters could use them to deprive candidates of an absolute majority and force fresh elections.
"It would be very efficient " he says.
In the first round of the presidential election in April  there were about 660 000 white ballots cast -- higher than the total vote tallies for five of the 11 candidates running.
Pollsters  who predict Mr. Macron will handily defeat Ms.
Le Pen  are also forecasting a record high number of white ballots on Sunday  with a large number of voters expected to abstain in one form or another.
Turnout is expected be the lowest since 1969  according to a poll published Friday by Odoxa.
After mainstream candidates were sidelined in the April 23 first round  these voters now say they don't identify with the positions of either Mr. Macron -- who wants to reinvigorate EU integration -- or Ms.
Le Pen -- who says France would be better off out of the bloc and the euro.
That could weaken the hand of the next president  whose immediate challenge will be to secure a workable majority in the French parliament in legislative elections set for next month.
"Macron and Marine Le Pen  they don't represent me.
They don't represent more than 50% of the French people " says Vincent Masserot  a 32-year-old who works for an insurance company and says he will cast a white ballot.
Anti-establishment politician Jacques Cheminade  who was eliminated in the first round of the presidential polls after winning just 65 000 votes -- far behind the number of white ballots cast -- says he is planning to cast one on Sunday.
"I cannot bring myself to vote for either" Mr. Macron or Ms.
Le Pen  he said.
Ahead of the final round  the white ballot has come under attack  mainly by mainstream politicians  who say choosing nobody amounts to giving Ms.
Le Pen a chance to reach the Elys& Olivier Durand  a longtime backer of the white-ballot cause  says attempts to blame or shame white-ballot voters amount to "a stupid strategy" and "a source of future bitterness."
The concept of blank protest votes isn't unique to France.
In India  the world's largest democracy  voters can now choose "none of the above" in national elections.
In the U.S.  Nevada allows voters to check a special box when they favor none of the candidates on the ballot.
Those votes have no practical effect on the outcome  however.
In France  there has been some support among mainstream politicians for changes to the voting system  which is geared to winnow a field of candidates and produce a winner with a clear majority.
The French parliament in 2014 passed a law mandating that blank ballots be counted and the totals published alongside election results.
But the legislation didn't incorporate the white ballots into the official tallies that affect the outcome of elections.
"They were too scared of the vote for no one " said Mr. Guyot.
Mr. Guyot  a 48-year-old florist  has continued to press his grassroots operation.
Citizens of the White Ballot organized gatherings to rally supporters.
Mr. Guyot met with an aide to President Fran& As this year's elections approached  Mr. Guyot attempted his own presidential run to promote his view that white ballots should count.
He travelled the country in a crisp white shirt brandishing a blank piece of paper.
He pledged to do nothing if elected.
But Mr. Guyot failed to collect enough signatures from elected officials to qualify for a place on the official ballot.
Now Mr. Guyot and his supporters are targeting the parliamentary elections.
Some 50 candidates will fan out across local districts in the name of no one.
Mr. Durand's Association for the Recognition of the White Ballot  has designed a special ballot that anyone voting in the Sunday presidential election can use.
It contains a brief explanation of the importance of the white balloting.
One person who won't be using the customized ballot is Mr. Durand  who plans to vote for an actual candidate  although he wouldn't say who he will back.
"When you're lucky enough to have found a candidate  you must vote " he said.
(END)     May 06  2017 02:32 ET (06:32 GMT)