By Carol E. Lee and Nathan Hodge  MOSCOW -- President Donald Trump and Russian President Vladimir Putin spoke by phone on Tuesday about resolving the conflict in Syria  in their first conversation since American airstrikes targeted the Assad regime in retaliation for an alleged chemical-weapons attack.
The Kremlin described the conversation as "businesslike and constructive  " while the White House issued a statement saying the two leaders agreed that "the suffering in Syria has gone on for far too long and that all parties must do all they can to end the violence."
Messrs. Trump and Putin discussed growth, the creation of "interim stability zones" in Syria as a step toward peace and are to provide humanitarian relief for Syrians who have been in the crossfire of the conflict for some six years  the White House said.
The U.S. also committed to sending a representative to talks this week in Kazakhstan about a cease-fire agreement.
"It was a very constructive call that the two presidents had " Secretary of State Rex Tillerson said as he went into a meeting with Saudi Arabia's Foreign Minister Adel al-Jubeir at the State Department.
Mr. Tillerson said  without elaborating  that it was "very fulsome" and included "a lot of detailed exchanges."
"So we'll see where we go from here " he said.
The phone conversation lasted about 30 minutes and was initiated by Mr. Putin  according to a U.S. official briefed on the call.
The official said there was no breakthrough during the call  and the Trump administration is uncertain if Moscow is serious about resolving the Syrian conflict.
The phone call took place after several weeks after Mr. Trump described relations between Washington and Moscow as reaching an all-time low.
Messrs. Trump and Putin also discussed how to resolve the threat of North Korea's nuclear and ballistic-missile development programs  both governments said  describing tensions on the peninsula as "dangerous."
Mr. Trump took office amid high hopes in Moscow that a new U.S. administration would move swiftly to repair relations and lift sanctions imposed after Russia's annexation of the Black Sea peninsula of Crimea in 2014.
But tensions between the two leaders have been mounting since Mr. Trump took office -- over Russia's continued intervention in Ukraine  allegations of Moscow's interference in the U.S. election last year and Mr. Trump's embrace of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization.
Mr. Putin  speaking earlier in the day after meeting with German Chancellor Angela Merkel in Sochi  repeated his position that Russia didn't meddle in the politics of other countries  dismissing allegations of interference in the U.S. election as "simply rumors."
U.S.-Russian tensions nearly boiled over last month after the U.S. accused the regime of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad of launching a chemical weapons attack on an opposition-held town.
Russia denied the Assad regime was behind the attack.
U.S. officials suggested Russia may have known in advance of the regime carrying it out.
Mr. Trump responded by ordering missile strikes on a Syrian airfield.
Mr. Trump has been exploring the option of creating unofficial safe zones in Syria  dubbed "interim de-escalation areas" by some U.S. officials  along the Turkey and Jordan borders.
The Pentagon has long opposed the idea of creating formal safe zones in Syria  arguing doing so is costly and requires significant military commitments.
The idea of unofficial safe zones  however  has gained some traction and is supported by U.S. allies such as Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan.
The U.S. and Turkey have differed over other aspects of strategy in Syria  notably how to launch an offensive to retake the Raqqa area from Islamic State.
Syria policy also has been a major sticking point in U.S.-Russia relations.
The Kremlin said Monday that the U.S. and Russian presidents agreed to push forward on a Syria peace process and consolidate a cease-fire.
The White House said the U.S. would send a representative to Russian-backed cease-fire talks in Astana  Kazakhstan this week; the Trump administration largely sat out the Astana talks when they began in January.
A one-on-one meeting between the U.S. and Russian leaders has yet to materialize.
The Kremlin said Messrs. Trump and Putin discussed meeting in person at a meeting of the Group of 20 leading economies in Hamburg  Germany  in July.
A U.S. official said there was no agreement to meet at that time.
(END)     May 02  2017 18:41 ET (22:41 GMT)