By Ese Erheriene  Asian stocks rose as last week's global worries about the U.S. political landscape continued to ease  with Australian stocks stabilizing after their worst performance in months.
Worries stemming from U.S. political uncertainty faded with President Donald Trump traveling in the Middle East and later this week to Europe.
Investors also largely shrugged off further missile tests by North Korea over the weekend.
"However ongoing concerns about the potential for instability in U.S. politics and subsequent questions around the implementation of a stimulus agenda could see a reversal in sentiment at any time " cautioned Michael McCarthy  chief market strategist at CMC.
Following bank-led declines last week  Australia's S&P/ASX 200 was recently up 0.9% as Commonwealth Bank of Australia gained 1.4%.
Further rebounds in commodity prices also helped.
After rising 9% the past two weeks  oil rose a further 1% in Asian trading Monday.
Looming is Thursday's meeting of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries  at which an extension to ongoing production cuts is expected.
Japan stocks  which also dragged last week  were solidly higher Monday.
Last week  the Nikkei's monthlong winning streak snapped with a 1.5% decline  moving the index back from 20000--above which it hasn't traded since December 2015.
The Nikkei was up 0.5% after the midday break as the dollar has stabilized at around Yen111.50 after briefly dipping below Yen111 before markets opened in Asia.
In Japan  exports rose 7.5% in April  buoyed by strong demand in Asia for semiconductors  semiconductor-making equipment and steel.
It marked the fifth-consecutive month of rising exports.
Steel  energy and machinery names--beneficiaries of global growth--led the gains in Tokyo.
Nippon Steel & Sumitomo Metal added 3.2%  SMC rose 2.7% and Inpex was up 1.2%.
Meanwhile  Hong Kong's Hang Seng Index and Korea's Kospi Index were on track for new highs on Monday.
The Hang Seng rose nearly 1%  setting the stage for a fresh 22-month closing high.
The Korean index gained 0.4%  putting it above the latest closing record set earlier this month.
North Korea's missile test was the eighth so far this year  including two failed tests.
Still  South Korean stocks have been unfazed  with the Kospi up 13% this year.
Meanwhile  Indonesia's JSX benchmark stock index continued to push into record territory of its own after late Friday's 2.6% surge caused by Standard & Poor's moving the country's sovereign-debt rating into investment-grade territory.
Jumping as much as 1.4% in morning trading  the index was recently up 0.7%.
Investment bank DNB sees the move likely being short-lived  contending Indonesia's improved economic fundamentals the past three years were already in investors' calculus.
The JSX has risen 45% from September 2015's low.
Arguably last week's upside standout  China is back to lagging other Asian stocks markets.
The Shanghai Composite was down 0.2%.
Kosaku Narioka contributed to this article.
(END)     May 22  2017 00:52 ET (04:52 GMT)