A dispute between two arms of the Libyan state has ensnared German oil company Wintershall AG  dragging down Libya's crude production and creating a new obstacle in the country's attempt to revive its oil industry after years of fighting.
After nearly three years of significant disruptions  Libya's oil production in recent months has recovered to its highest level in two years.
After reopening its oil industry to foreign investors this year for the first time since deposed leader Col. Moammar Gadhafi was killed in 2011  the country was aiming to produce 1 million barrels a day by April.
But it has fallen short -- producing about 800 000 barrels daily -- in part because Wintershall  a unit of German chemical giant BASF AG  has stopped production while the dispute involving it  the state-owned National Oil Co. and the Presidential Council -- Libya's internationally recognized government -- remains unresolved.
The Wintershall stoppage has taken some 160 000 barrels a day offline  according to the state oil company.
Mustafa Sanallah  chairman of the National Oil Co.  or NOC  said in an emailed statement Wednesday that it had shut Wintershall's access to an oil-export terminal after accusing the German company of refusing to discuss payments that Mr. Sanallah said it owes going back to 2008.
He contended that Wintershall "has tried to interfere in Libyan internal politics and to take advantage of the weakness of the state" by attempting to make a deal with the Presidential Council that  Mr. Sanallah argues  has no authority to strike oil agreements.
A Wintershall spokesman confirmed that the company cut output after the NOC cut off its access to the terminal.
But he said there is no dispute over money with the government or the NOC  and that Wintershall is "in contact with NOC about a number of issues."
The NOC and the Presidential Council have been locked in a struggle over control of Libya's oil industry.
An exchange of letters between the two authorities shows Wintershall getting embroiled in their fight.
Since 2008  Wintershall has dealt with the NOC.
But in March  the Presidential Council announced that it would be in charge of all oil contracts  a ruling the NOC disputes.
In a letter last month to the Presidential Council  the NOC said Wintershall was "deliberately ignoring" a 2010 agreement it signed with the NOC concerning payments going back to 2008.
Terms of that agreement make Wintershall liable for more than $900 million in payments to the NOC  according to a person familiar with the dispute.
Mr. Sanallah said the Presidential Council rejected his demand that the NOC remain in charge of oil contracts  and added that the Council "has instead sided with Wintershall against NOC."
In a letter to the NOC in March  the Presdential Council asked Mr. Sanallah "not to take action" against Wintershall and accused Mr. Sanallah of refusing to respond to the German company  which Mr. Sanallah denied.
The Presidential Council and Wintershall declined to comment on the letters  which were reviewed.
A spokesman for the Presidential Council declined to comment on the dispute with the NOC and the NOC's dispute with Wintershall.
The friction between government factions and Wintershall underscores how unstable Libya's oil output remains  even after it more than quadrupled its production from 190 000 barrels a day last summer after an agreement between rival militias that control different parts of the country.
Frequent fighting constantly threatens further shutdowns.
The country's fluctuating production has international implications.
The Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries has been working with non-OPEC countries to scale back oil production to raise crude prices.
Libya's fluctuations has made it difficult for them to figure out how much to cut.
And more Libyan oil entering international markets if new agreements or reached could undermine supply cuts from OPEC and its partners.
(END)     May 10  2017 14:37 ET (18:37 GMT)