TODAY'S CALENDAR - All times GMT    Other Macro  0830 U.K. March ILO Unemployment  0900 Eurozone April HICP    Other Equities  ABN Amro Group NV 1Q  American Eagle Outfitters 1Q  Cisco Systems Inc 3Q  Target Corp 1Q    GLOBAL NEWS:     The latest revelation to buffet the White House -- that President Donald Trump allegedly asked then-FBI Director James Comey to drop a probe of his former national security adviser -- has prompted some congressional Republicans to call for further investigation.
Mr. Comey documented the encounter in a memo written shortly after the February meeting  according to two people close to Mr. Comey.
House Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman Jason Chaffetz said he was considering subpoenaing the memo  if it wasn't made available.
Mr. Chaffetz on Tuesday night requested the FBI provide by May 24 all memos  notes  summaries and recordings of communication between Mr. Trump and Mr. Comey in a letter to FBI Acting Director Andrew McCabe.
The move was supported by House Speaker Paul Ryan.
"We need to have all the facts  and it is appropriate for the House Oversight Committee to request this memo " AshLee Strong  a spokeswoman for Mr. Ryan  said in a statement.
Mr. Chaffetz insisted the House could get its business done despite the upheaval.
"The government is always full of crisis -- some of this is very self-inflicted by the White House itself -- but we still have to be able to pass meaningful legislation and get it to the president's desk " Mr. Chaffetz told NBC Tuesday night.
Other congressional Republicans called on Mr. Comey to deliver a full explanation.
The series of controversies involving the president has threatened to swamp his legislative agenda on Capitol Hill  with potential hearings and widening investigations siphoning time and energy from plans to overhaul the health-care system and tax code.
The United Nations Security Council on Tuesday held a closed-door  emergency meeting on North Korea  holding talks on new sanctions in response to the country's latest ballistic missile test.
The U.S. and China were negotiating a resolution that would implement new sanctions and tighten existing penalties on Pyongyang  diplomats said.
China is North Korea's main ally at the U.N. and has in the past advocated for direct negotiations rather than economic and military punishment.
U.S.
Ambassador Nikki Haley said that the international community had to send North Korea a "no more" signal and said the U.S. would be willing to talk to North Korea only if the country abandoned its nuclear and missile program.
(END)     May 16  2017 23:38 ET (03:38 GMT)