09:43 ET - Bank of America Merrill Lynch calls President Trump's approval of Keystone and Dakota-Access pipelines "just a warm up" as he begins unleashing the energy sector.
"Energy is a policy cornerstone  together with tax reform  in this administration."
As Trump targets job creation and economic growth  the investment bank says "for the energy sector  this means more access to Federal land and water resources and less regulation.
It means a faster build out of infrastructure."
Still  it also notes politics has something to do with all of this.
"Energy is a key focus because it creates jobs in red states and can respond to policy on time for next year's mid-term election."
(dan.molinski)     9:36 ET - Mississippi Power  a subsidiary of Southern Co  said its first-of-its-kind coal gasification facility will not be placed in service until the end of May at the earliest.
It reported the latest delay in a securities filing.
Completion of the Kemper County  Miss  facility has been plagued by delays and cost overruns.
The total cost of the facility  not including federal grants  is $5.75B.
The facility is intended to turn coal into gas  which can be burned to generate electricity.
The carbon dioxide output will be captured and injected into oil fields to boost production.
The company said the latest due to repairs to a leak in a control device and medication to an ash-removal system.
09:22 ET - Hedge fund stockpickers showed some pluck in 1Q 2017 as long/short strategies notched their best start to any year since 2013.
Long/short strategies posted an average advance of 3.5% in 1Q  according to Mark Connors  head of prime services at Credit Suisse.
That compares with a dismal 3.4% decline in the first quarter of 2016.
Since the election  analysts have forecast that lower stock market correlations and higher dispersion would make a more hospitable environment for picking stocks.
Connors notes that those long/short funds heavy in tech stocks fared best.
(chris.dieterich)     9:18 ET - There's an ominous undercurrent to the unexpectedly cooling off in March inflation.
A key inflation expectations gauge produced by the New York Fed has also seen weakness of late  with the public predicting slower price gains over the one and three year horizons.
While it's too soon to say the long slog to get inflation back to the Fed's 2% targeted rise is over  it's also possible the promised land may be more elusive given economists' view that where the public expects inflation to go is a powerful driver of its current performance.
It's another reason to believe the Fed's campaign to raise rates may not be as straightforward as it now seems to be.
(END)     May 01  2017 09:43 ET (13:43 GMT)