LONDON--Turkey's prime minister said Friday that his nation is looking for more promises from President Donald Trump to ensure Turkey's national security  as the two allies meet next week to discuss their alliance in fighting terror in the Mideast.
The visit by President Recep Tayyip Erdogan to the White House on May 16 is designed to reset relations that have soured in the last couple of years  in part due to different strategic goals in Syria and disagreements over domestic Turkish politics.
Mr. Trump was the first Western leader to congratulate Mr. Erdogan on last month's controversial referendum giving him more power  while other Western allies have been more circumspect  citing concern about what they view as a weakening of democratic institutions and a widening crackdown against Mr. Erdogan's political foes.
Turkey's government hopes past disagreements can be put behind them and the strategic partners can strengthen their ties  both economically and on national security  Prime Minister Binali Yildirim told reporters during a visit to London.
Turkey  a fellow member of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization  hosts nearly 5 000 U.S. servicemen at its Incirlik Air Base  which the U.S. uses as the base for a significant amount of operations against Islamic State in Syria and Iraq.
"We want sincerity with the U.S. " Mr. Yildirim said.
"We believe they [the White House] are sincere in mending relations with Turkey."
Both Mr. Erdogan and Mr. Yildirim in different press conferences on Friday sought to play down the announcement earlier this week by the Trump administration that the U.S. would arm a Syrian Kurdish militia that Turkey and others view as a branch of the Kurdistan Workers' Party  or PKK.
Both Turkey and the U.S. have designated the group a terror organization because of its bloody decadeslong insurgency for autonomy against Turkey.
The Syrian fighters  called the YPG  will be the vanguard force in the operation to retake Raqqa  the Islamic State's capital in Syria and one of its last urban footholds in that country.
In London  where he was attending a donors' conference on Somalia  Mr. Yildirim struck a note of pragmatism and conciliation on the YPG issue.
He said U.S. officials have explained the need to arm the YPG was one of "necessity " not choice  due to the urgency among U.S. military planners to start the campaign for Raqqa and destroy Islamic State.
Turkey believes that the tactical move will result in more instability in Syria  as it believes the YPG's goal of Kurdish autonomy will undermine the territorial integrity of its Mideast neighbor.
Turkey also fears that a strengthened YPG will create blowback in Turkey's fight against the PKK at home.
"We believe the U.S. is making a mistake and this mistake will be seen sooner or later and felt by Turkey.
The cost of those mistakes are paid by people in the region " Mr. Yildirim said.
The prime minister said that U.S. officials are working to smooth over the disagreement by deepening intelligence-sharing with Turkey in its fight against PKK.
The  reported earlier in the week that the U.S. was discussing how to boost intelligence-sharing with Turkey as it fights PKK positions in Iraq.
U.S. Defense Secretary Jim Mattis  who met with the Turkish prime minister in London on Thursday  said the U.S. would look into boosting efforts to identify and sanction the PKK's global financial networks  Mr. Yildirim said.
U.S. officials were not immediately available to comment.
The U.S. Treasury has several times in the recent past sanctioned individuals it identified as PKK financiers.
The defense secretary also repeated U.S. promises that the its military will not allow YPG arms to be used against Turkish targets  Mr. Yildirim said.
(END)    May 12  2017 10:10 ET (14:10 GMT)