Centrist defeats nationalist Le Pen  promises to tackle economic reforms     PARIS -- Emmanuel Macron was elected president of France Sunday in a victory for a political newcomer who campaigned on promises to reform France's heavily regulated economy and fight a tide of nationalism sweeping the European Union.
The 39-year-old former investment banker  who won 66.1% of the vote  has vowed to undertake contentious labor reforms in France as part of a push for greater economic convergence among the European Union's fractious member states.
Marine Le Pen  who ran on a plan to pull the country out of the euro and close its borders to migrants  took 33.9%.
The results surpassed pollsters' predictions that Mr. Macron would win about 60%.
Mr. Macron will become the youngest president in French history at a time when France and the EU  the 60-year political project it helped found  are at a major crossroads.
Nearly a decade of lost economic growth for many EU countries has fueled the rise of Ms.
Le Pen and other nationalists across the Continent  emboldened by the British vote to leave the EU  or Brexit  and the election of U.S. President Donald Trump.
"I know the divisions in our nation  which led some to vote for extremist parties.
I respect them " Mr. Macron said in a somber address after the victory.
"I will work to recreate the link between Europe and its peoples."
Still  the scale of Mr. Macron's victory provides a shot in the arm to the pro-EU establishment.
He ran as a staunch defender of the bloc  positioning himself as a bulwark against Europe's nationalist wave.
The strategy broke with parts of France's political mainstream that had been gravitating toward more populist positions.
The euro rose by around 0.2% to $1.102 against the dollar following the results  taking the common currency to its highest level since the U.S. presidential election in November.
On Sunday evening  the soaring notes of Beethoven's Ninth Symphony  the EU's anthem  played as Mr. Macron entered the courtyard of the Louvre Museum to deliver his victory speech.
"The whole world told us it was impossible  but they didn't know France  " Mr. Macron said.
In conceding defeat Sunday  Ms.
Le Pen said her far-right National Front party was in need of "deep transformation...to build a new political force."
Ms.
Le Pen said the election cemented her status as the leading opposition figure of a new political order centered around "the divide between patriots and globalists."
In the coming weeks  Mr. Macron will face a scramble to show that his fledgling political party  En Marche  or "On the Move " is capable of winning a majority in June's legislative elections.
En Marche has so far refused to forge alliances with mainstream parties and has only named a handful of candidates it intends to field in the 577 seats up for grabs.
If Mr. Macron fails to secure a majority  he would have to seek ad hoc alliances with opposition parties or could even be forced into a so-called cohabitation -- a form of power-sharing under which a prime minister from the opposition runs the government.
Voters on Sunday appeared unmoved by the massive leak of emails and documents purportedly from the Macron campaign  which were posted to the internet on Friday evening.
Once in office  however  Mr. Macron faces possible fallout from the data dump  which his campaign said mixed real and phony documents with the aim of "sowing doubt and disinformation."
For months  Mr. Macron had said his camp was being targeted by Russian government hackers.
The Kremlin denied any involvement.
Mr. Macron has said the EU's future depends on whether its shaky architecture can undergo a root-and-branch overhaul to correct stark economic imbalances among wealthier Northern and poorer Southern members and develop a security apparatus able to protect the bloc from terror attacks and control a recent wave of migration.
For that to happen  he says  France needs to set an example among countries that have been slow to embrace economic restructuring by loosening its own rigid labor market to become more competitive with stronger neighbors like Germany.
Those mammoth tasks fall to a relative newcomer to politics.
Until now  Mr. Macron has never held elected office.
He was trained in elite French academies to become a high-ranking civil servant  but switched to a career in investment banking  joining Rothschild & Cie. at the height of the financial crisis.
The rise of both Mr. Macron and Ms.
Le Pen stems from a meltdown of the political establishment that had ruled France for decades.
No candidate from the country's main conservative or center-left parties survived the first round of voting last month.
Fran& Mr. Hollande tapped Mr. Macron as a top aide in 2012 and later promoted him to economy minister.
Those posts have given him insight into policy-making but have provided limited experience on the sort of parliamentary coalition-building needed to pass difficult legislation -- of the type that will be needed to move ahead with his agenda.
Despite her defeat  Ms.
Le Pen managed to pick up millions of supporters  breaking through a key political barrier of previous elections  when big majorities overwhelmingly rallied against the National Front  tainted by the xenophobia of her father  Jean-Marie Le Pen  who has faced criticism for anti-Semitic rhetoric.
The preliminary results show Ms.
Le Pen nearly doubled the 17.8% of the vote her father won in 2002  the only previous occasion a National Front candidate reached the final round of a French presidential election.
"The National Front is now very ingrained  so we have to live with it " said Xavier N& National Front brass and party faithful who had gathered in a Paris hotel for the results Sunday said the party now needed to reorganize its ranks -- and even rebrand itself -- to become a mainstream political power.
"The National Front has seen its limits " said Jean-Lin Lacapelle  a senior National Front official.
Damien Medel  an 28 year old from Le Mans who voted for Ms.
Le Pen  said the party needed to do a better job of explaining its platform  particularly its anti-euro stance.
"I'm convinced people were scared of that " he said.
Still  Ms.
Le Pen's success in broadening the National Front's base is a measure of how voters in France's rural and declining industrial areas have become skeptical of a project that  only a decade ago  was strongly embraced as a recipe for ending centuries of conflict in Europe.
The EU's goal of binding its member countries in an "ever closer" union has also placed many of its weaker economies in a straitjacket.
The sovereign-debt crisis that swept the bloc's southern economies -- from Greece and Italy to Spain and Portugal -- has left the Continent struggling to kick-start growth.
Some on Sunday warned that support for Mr. Macron was more tenuous than the results suggested.
Maurice Attuil  a 63 year-old plumber  said he cast a vote for Mr. Macron in Ris-Orangis  20 miles south of Paris  because "we don't really have a choice.
I don't want to vote for extremists."
--Nick Kostov  Matthew Dalton and No&         (END)     May 08  2017 02:32 ET (06:32 GMT)