By Erich Schwartzel  LOS ANGELES -- In the final days of his decades in deal-making  Kirk Kerkorian made an investment many in Hollywood would view as a bet with extremely long odds.
The billionaire businessman handed over about $100 million to make "The Promise " a love story set amid the collapse of the Ottoman Empire that ranks among the most expensive independent films released this year.
Without a studio attached to distribute it or a script based on a well-known TV show or comic book  this type of feature is all but impossible to produce in today's Hollywood without a deep-pocketed  passionate benefactor.
Mr. Kerkorian fit the bill.
One of the most prominent Americans of Armenian descent  the hotel and entertainment mogul had spent decades backing Armenian charities around the world.
Mr. Kerkorian's financing of "Promise" is now a prominent piece of the Armenian community's campaign to secure genocide classification for the mass killings of Armenians by Ottoman Turks that began in 1915  a choice that put the movie in the middle of a 102-year-old controversy that has political reverberations today.
Mr. Kerkorian and his producers envisioned a movie like "Schindler's List" or "Hotel Rwanda" that would become a touchstone cinematic portrayal of historical atrocities.
Despite a poor opening at the box office  "The Promise" appears to be the first of many ways that Mr. Kerkorian's $4 billion fortune could continue to influence Hollywood and global politics since his death nearly two years ago.
The movie is a key element of a broader effort by Mr. Kerkorian's estate to raise awareness of human-rights violations throughout history.
Mr. Kerkorian died in 2015 at the age of 98 before production on "The Promise" began  but he made the movie's agenda clear.
"He didn't want it to be a history lesson or a lecture " said Eric Esrailian  a Los Angeles gastroenterologist who met Mr. Kerkorian several years ago.
"But he wanted to introduce people to the Armenian genocide."
Mr. Esrailian's full-time job is in medicine  but he is also charged with overseeing a significant and potentially powerful piece of Mr. Kerkorian's estate: Survival Pictures  a production company that began work with "The Promise" and may develop more movies in the future.
"The Promise" wades into a geopolitical battle over how the Armenian killings are classified.
Every sitting U.S. president since Ronald Reagan has refrained from calling them a "genocide " avoiding a term that angers Turkey.
However  the United Nations  Roman Catholic Church and many other organizations and experts put the killing of nearly 1.5 million Armenians in the same class of atrocity as the Holocaust and the Rwandan genocide of the 1990s.
After actor Daniel Gim& "He said  'Why do you say it's a genocide?
You are not well informed ' " Mr. Cacho says in the film.
Representatives for Mr. Cacho  who is Mexican  and the Turkish embassy in Mexico didn't respond to requests for comment.
"We really had a hard time casting Turkish actors " said producer William Horberg.
"They thought it could affect their careers."
"Intent to Destroy" premiered Tuesday at this year's Tribeca Film Festival  and Mr. Kerkorian's estate donated $20 million to the law school at the University of California  Los Angeles  to establish the Promise Institute for Human Rights  loosely modeled after the Shoah Foundation  started by Steven Spielberg following the release of his Holocaust drama "Schindler's List."
Though it features A-list stars Oscar Isaac and Christian Bale as two men in love with the same Armenian woman  "The Promise" has barely registered at the box office.
Since it opened on April 21  the movie  which was released by Open Road Films  has collected a paltry $7 million in the U.S. and Canada.
If a studio had financed the movie  that gross would rank among the worst returns on investment in Hollywood history.
Mr. Kerkorian's estate backed the entire production  and any box-office revenue that flows back to Survival Pictures is being donated to charity  said Mr. Esrailian.
He said Mr. Kerkorian's goal was education  not box-office proceeds.
"We made this movie for 100 years  not just two days " he said  referring to the film's opening weekend.
Mr. Kerkorian died after a long career in real estate and entertainment.
A key player in building modern-day Las Vegas  he acquired the Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer film studio in 1969 and opened the original MGM Grand Hotel and Casino in 1973.
He bought and sold the studio three times  and had a net worth of $4.2 billion when he died  according to Forbes.
He is believed by Armenian rights groups to have donated a total of $1 billion to Armenian causes in his lifetime.
Soon after the movie's premiere at the Toronto International Film Festival last September  thousands of one-star reviews of the film flooded IMDb.com  the popular movie website owned by Amazon.com Inc.
The onslaught of negative reviews was traced to social-media campaigns against the film on Turkish websites.
One text-message campaign in Turkey read  "Please go to Rotten Tomatoes or IMDb and rate this 1/2 a star.
Let's drop its ratings " according to a screenshot provided by an Armenian activist.
Similar language appeared on a Turkish social-media site reviewed by The .
"The Promise" currently has more than 144 000 reviews on the site  about 50 000 more than the year's top-grossing movie  "Beauty and the Beast."
(END)     May 01  2017 02:32 ET (06:32 GMT)