Brexit & Beyond: Europe in Flux is The 's round-up of news and analysis of how Brexit will affect global business  economies and finance.
You can sign up here.
MUST READS     U.K. Labour Leader Unveils Left-Wing Platform Ahead of Elections: The U.K.'s main opposition Labour Party on Tuesday pledged to nationalize parts of British industry and raise taxes on high earners if it wins a national election June 8  an avowedly left-wing platform that party leader Jeremy Corbyn hopes will narrow a gap in the polls with Prime Minister Theresa May's governing Conservatives.
U.K. Inflation Fastest Since 2013: U. K. consumer prices rose at the fastest pace in over three years  data showed  suggesting Britons are facing a living-standards squeeze as the country heads into a general election and begins its exit from the European Union.
Europe's Top Court Says Broad Trade Pacts Need Consent From All EU Countries: The European Union's top court on Tuesday curbed the bloc's power to sign off trade pacts without explicit backing from EU members in a decision that poses risks to future deals  including with Britain.
U.K. International Trade Secretary: We Are Prepared to Be Free-Trade Champions: The U.K.'s top trade official said that Britain would be a leading advocate for free trade despite its plans to leave the European Union.
Eurozone Trade Surplus Hits Record as Exports Rise: The eurozone's trade surplus with the rest of the world during March was the widest since the single currency was launched in 1999  as exports jumped.
J.P. Morgan Buys Dublin Office Tower  Makes Room to Expand Outside London: J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. is buying an office tower in Dublin's docklands business quarter  giving the U.S. bank significant space to expand outside of London when Britain leaves the European Union.
Some U.K. Landlords Load Up on Risk Abroad: A couple of British real-estate investment trusts are swimming against the current by taking on more debt and expanding abroad.
Austria Readies for Snap Election This Fall: Austrian Chancellor Christian Kern said he expects snap elections this fall and would aim to avoid political chaos until then  as the Alpine country prepared for a new campaign in which the far-right Freedom Party will seek to enter the government.
State Electoral Win Shows Angela Merkel's Staying Power: German Chancellor Angela Merkel  buffeted by years of crises that opponents said would usher in her political demise  is savoring signs of renewed strength as a national election campaign approaches.
Germany Threatens to Pull Forces From Turkey Amid Tensions: Germany said it may pull forces involved in fighting Islamic State from a Turkish air base after Turkey banned lawmakers from visiting German troops  escalating tensions again between the two countries.
IN THE PAPERS     Brexit Dishes Up Food Safety Dilemma for U.K. --      No Case for Shifting Euro Clearing After Brexit: City of London -- Reuters     There is a New Consensus in Germany -- Brexit Should Be Clean  and Britain Should Pay for It -- New Statesman     After Corbyn ... the People's Labour Party -- Politico     'Destroy Labour'  Britain's Conservatives Given Election Orders -- Reuters     For breaking news and intelligence on Brexit  finance  markets  deals and people from London  download  City  for iPhone  or  Android smartphone.
And you can find more analysis of politics  economics and regulation in the European Union over on  Real Time Brussels.
(END)     May 16  2017 15:41 ET (19:41 GMT)