By Stephen Fidler     Brexit & Beyond: Europe in Flux is The 's round-up of news and analysis of how Brexit will affect global business  economies and growth.
You can sign up here.
MUST READS     Tories Boosted by U.K. Local Elections Results:  U.K. Prime Minister Theresa May's Conservative Party made significant gains Friday in local elections  making inroads into territory long held by the main opposition Labour Party and pointing to a potentially big win for the ruling party in next month's nationwide vote.
Brexit Clash Points to Trouble Ahead: The war of words that escalated this week between London and Brussels is a sign that nobody should take a deal over Brexit for granted  Stephen Fidler writes.
EU Warns Emotions Getting Out of Hand on Brexit: A top European official hit back Thursday at U.K. Prime Minister Theresa May's accusation of Brussels interference in the coming U.K. election  saying that a successful Brexit deal will be impossible if the two sides let "emotions get out of hand."
Blankfein Warns City Will 'Stall' Because of Brexit: Goldman Sachs's chief executive has said he expects London's position as a financial centre to "stall" because of Brexit.
France Opens Probe Into Suspected Bid to Tar Macron: Prosecutors opened a probe into a suspected attempt to tar Emmanuel Macron after documents suggested he had created a shell company on the island of Nevis  where officials say they have no record of any such entity.
ECB's Draghi Says Anxiety About Monetary Union Is Misplaced: European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi on Thursday launched a defense of European integration  saying the European Union is "being wrongly held responsible" for decisions that belong to individual countries.
Trump to Meet EU Officials in Brussels: The top leaders of the European Union will meet with President Donald Trump during his visit to Brussels this month  officials from the bloc announced.
VW Brand CEO Aims to Boost Profit Through Productivity Gains  Cost-Control:  Volkswagen's struggling namesake brand said Friday it expects to wrap up the technical fixes of most tainted diesel vehicles by the end of the year and boost productivity and profits in its main automotive operations.
IN THE PAPERS     EU Launches Fresh Bid to Strip City of Euro Trade -- The Times     We Made Mistakes  Juncker Admits Over Brexit Vote -- The Times     UK Election Poses Recruitment Headache for European Parliament  -- Politico     Macron Names Ministers Ahead of French Election Result -- The Times     Juncker Says English Language Is Losing Its Clout -- Politico     Conservatives Fear Manifesto Shift From Free Market --      For breaking news and intelligence on Brexit  finance  markets  deals and people from London  download  City  for iPhone  or  Android smartphone.
And you can find more analysis of politics  economics and regulation in the European Union over on  Real Time Brussels.
(END)     May 05  2017 14:50 ET (18:50 GMT)