By Michelle Hackman     A number of prominent Democrats are seizing on comments talk-show host Jimmy Kimmel made about his son's heart condition to argue against a House Republican plan to overturn portions of the 2010 Affordable Care Act  angering some Republicans who say the repeal legislation is being miscast.
Former President Barack Obama  2016 Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton and Democratic Senate leader Chuck Schumer have said Mr. Kimmel's story shows the ACA and its protections for people with pre-existing conditions should be preserved.
Republicans have argued their current bill would maintain such protections and that critics are portraying it in an inaccurate negative light.
Former Republican Rep. Joe Walsh  who is now a conservative talk radio host  on Tuesday wrote on Twitter: "Got a big problem with 'we need gov-run healthcare cuz of my sad story.'"
On his television show "Jimmy Kimmel Live" Monday night  Mr. Kimmel recounted the birth and subsequent medical care of his son  who has a congenital heart defect  arguing it showed the urgency of preserving protections for people who have pre-existing health conditions.
During the monologue  Mr. Kimmel made an emotional plea: "No parent should ever have to decide if they can afford to save their child's life."
His comments  which Democrats opposed to the GOP repeal effort quickly lauded  came as House Republican leaders try this week to get enough support to pass their health proposal.
The 2010 Affordable Care Act  known widely as Obamacare  barred insurers from charging higher premiums to individuals with pre-existing medical conditions.
After promising since 2010 to repeal Obamacare  GOP leaders since January have been struggling to craft legislation that strips away many of the ACA requirements aggressively enough to appease conservatives while maintaining enough protections to preserve support from centrist Republicans.
The House GOP leadership's health-care bill could let insurers in some states charge higher premiums to people with pre-existing health conditions who let their coverage lapse.
A number of centrist Republicans have been concerned that breaks their promise to protect guaranteed coverage provided now in the ACA.
Mr. Kimmel's comments Monday  delivered during a tearful opening monologue  came just as many moderate Republicans said they were still undecided on whether to support the proposal.
Republicans have also been seeking to build public support for their plan  arguing Tuesday that the proposal doesn't gut protections for people who are sick or have expensive medical conditions.
The legislation "helps us lower premiums while keeping protections for the most vulnerable in place " House Speaker Paul Ryan said Tuesday in a statement.
But Democrats have seen Mr. Kimmel's comments as an opening to sway public support against repeal efforts.
(END)     May 02  2017 17:41 ET (21:41 GMT)