By Rory Jones  TEL AVIV--Palestinian officials in the West Bank urged Hamas on Tuesday to take concrete steps to reconcile with the Palestinian Authority  a day after the Islamist movement issued a revised set of principles in which it dropped its longstanding call for the destruction of Israel.
In a six-page document issued just days before Mahmoud Abbas  head of the rival Palestinian Authority  is to meet with President Donald Trump at the White House  Hamas also approved the establishment of a Palestinian state based on pre-1967 borders  aligning it with the Authority's longstanding position.
In bridging some differences with the Authority  the document "takes away this Israeli accusation that Palestinians are divided " a Palestinian official said in Ramallah  the Authority's governing seat.
"It's a good step.
It's whether they will implement it or not."
The document  unveiled Monday in the Qatar capital Doha  allows Mr. Abbas to display a united Palestinian front when he meets the U.S. president  Palestinian officials said.
Israel has repeatedly highlighted the division between Hamas and the Palestinian Authority as proof that it doesn't have a Palestinian partner for peace.
Hamas rules the Gaza Strip  while the Palestinian Authority  which is dominated by Mr. Abbas's more secular Fatah movement  governs the West Bank.
Israel scathingly rejected suggestions that the document  a supplement to the group's 1988 charter  was anything more than a rhetorical makeover that disguised the determination of Hamas to annihilate Israel.
"They dig terror tunnels and have launched thousands upon thousands of missiles at Israeli civilians " said David Keyes  a spokesman for Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu.
"This is the real Hamas."
Daniel Shapiro  who served as U.S. ambassador to Israel during the Obama administration  suggested that nothing essential about Hamas had changed.
The group has been designated a terrorist organization by the U.S. and other Western governments.
"It may serve some purpose on the Palestinian or Arab side  but it isn't fooling anyone on the Israeli or American side " said Mr. Shapiro  now a senior fellow at Tel Aviv's Institute for National Security Studies.
Arab nations and Turkey were likely to withhold comment until after the White House meeting between Mr. Trump and Mr. Abbas  the Palestinian official said.
In recent weeks  Mr. Abbas has put financial pressure on Hamas in an apparent attempt to show Mr. Trump that he understands the importance of bringing some semblance of unity to Palestinian government and politics.
"If Abbas is smart enough he can use it [the document of principles] to show that everyone is under his umbrella " Mahdi Abdul Hadi  head of the Jerusalem-based Palestinian Academic Society for the Study of International Affairs.
The "Document of General Principles and Policies" also more explicitly defines Hamas as a national movement to create a Palestinian state  distancing it from the Muslim Brotherhood  which has branches in Egypt and across the region.
Until Monday  Hamas had rejected the notion of a Palestinian state within 1967 borders  a longstanding position of the Palestinian Authority and the Palestine Liberation Organization  which Israel officially recognized in 1993 as the representative of the Palestinian people.
Hamas head Khaled Mashaal said at Monday night's announcement in Doha that Hamas was willing to enter negotiations with Israel.
But the document of principles doesn't recognize the state of Israel and indicates that in time  Hamas will control all of what is now Israel.
An Israeli official said Hamas's approach remained different from the Authority's.
"Instead of trying to destroy us in one go  they will do it two goes " the official said.
The charter is "cosmetics and nothing more."
(END)     May 02  2017 11:32 ET (15:32 GMT)