By William Mauldin  WASHINGTON -- President Donald Trump's Middle East visit achieved a measure of foreign-policy success by shoring up U.S. alliances  distracting from the president's domestic difficulties and sidestepping some of the thornier problems simmering in the region  according to lawmakers and Mideast experts.
In a speech in the Saudi Arabian capital  Mr. Trump challenged the heads of state in the region to help in "honestly confronting the crisis of Islamist extremism and the Islamist terror groups it inspires " saying terrorists should be driven "out of this earth."
Mr. Trump also said "all nations of conscience must work together to isolate Iran  deny it funding for terrorism " without providing concrete details of U.S. strategy toward Tehran.
"This is someone who is making it clear that we're making common cause with those who are prepared to take on ISIS and the Iranians " said Dennis Ross  a former U.S. envoy in the region and senior fellow at the Washington Institute for Near East Policy.
Mr. Trump's messages were received warmly by the leaders in the region because their governments are some of the biggest targets for terrorism and are also under pressure from Iran  which supports militants in Iraq  Syria and Yemen.
"It is to some extent preaching at the choir " said Anthony Cordesman  strategy chair at the Center for Strategic and International Studies.
"All of this sends a kind of message about American resolve and American concern for its Arab allies."
The visit served as reassurance for Saudi Arabia and allied nations after former President Barack Obama appeared to seek closer relations with Iran while negotiating a nuclear agreement with the country  and after the 2016 presidential campaign raised questions about the U.S. appetite for foreign entanglements.
Mr. Trump's decision to visit Saudi Arabia and Israel before other countries -- and his warm rhetoric for their leadership -- signals a shift away from Mr. Obama's policy in the region  which Mr. Trump has blamed for the turmoil there.
The trip also shows Mr. Trump appears eager to use his international authority to work with allies and court success on the global stage as he faces political headaches back home that may hamper his domestic goals  said Aaron David Miller  a former senior State Department official now at Washington's Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars.
In his speech Sunday  Mr. Trump had to strike a balance between cooperation with the majority-Muslim countries and loyalty to his domestic political base  which includes supporters who backed his campaign promise to ban Muslims from entering the U.S.  "He got in and out of the speech conundrum fairly well " Mr. Miller said.
"He made a few of the right points  missed many of the bad ones  dodged the bullet on formulations of 'radical Islamic terrorism' that could be seen as terribly offending."
The speech in Riyadh isn't likely to win Mr. Trump support among Muslims.
"One speech cannot outweigh years of anti-Muslim rhetoric and policy proposal " said  Nihad Awad  the executive director of the Council on American-Islamic Relations  a Muslim advocacy organization.
"I do not believe in a summit on Islam that is headed by Trump " wrote a Saudi Twitter user  Salem Haseen al-Dosari.
Some of Mr. Trump's political partners also were turned off.
Roger Stone  a Republican operative who was closely involved with Mr. Trump's campaign  responded to a photograph of King Salman bin Abdulaziz Al Saud placing a medal around the president's neck by writing on Twitter: "Candidly  this makes me want to puke."
Mr. Trump avoided sensitive issues of human rights  repressive regimes and official support for Muslim clerics in the region who inspire some militant extremists.
The absence of a human-rights discussion drew quick criticism from Democratic and Republican lawmakers.
"I think this is a broader element of the administration's policy  that they're going to de-emphasize issues of human rights -- that what countries do within their own boundaries  we're essentially going to look the other way " said Rep. Adam Schiff (D.  Calif.).
Sen. Marco Rubio  said on CNN "State of the Union" on Sunday that his own approach is to be "much more forceful and open and vocal about criticizing whether it's Egypt or Saudi Arabia for its human-rights record."
Saudi Arabia has helped roll back meager democratic gains made in many countries after the 2011 Arab Spring by throwing its weight behind Egypt's military and undermining political Islamist movements like the Muslim Brotherhood.
It maintains tight control over its domestic politics  limiting the rights of Saudi women and minorities.
In Bahrain  Mr. Trump told King Sheikh Hamad bin Isa al-Khalifa there would be no more "strain" in the relationship between the two allies.
"Sounds like a green light for violations " tweeted prominent Bahraini human rights activist Maryam Alkhawaja  reacting to the news.
Bahrain has cracked down on dissenters since 2011  violently putting down popular protests.
Still  many Saudis celebrated Mr. Trump's visit  reveling in the spotlight the U.S. president and his family have brought to the country.
Social media noted the presence of his daughter and senior White House adviser Ivanka Trump.
The World Bank announced at a Sunday event with Ms. Trump that Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates have pledged a total of $100 million to a new fund assisting female entrepreneurs.
"Trump's Daughter" was the top trending hashtag on Twitter for most of Saturday  riffing off previous social media phenomena where Mr. Trump was referred to as Abu Ivanka -- meaning "Ivanka's Father" in Arabic.
(END)     May 22  2017 02:32 ET (06:32 GMT)