Brexit & Beyond: Europe in Flux is The 's round-up of news and analysis of how Brexit will affect global business  economies and finance.
You can sign up here.
MUST READS     Emmanuel Macron Wins French Presidency: Emmanuel Macron was elected president of France Sunday in a victory for a political newcomer who campaigned on promises to reform France's heavily regulated economy and fight a tide of nationalism sweeping the European Union.
Macron Victory Eases Path for Stronger Euro: As political risks to the euro wane  analysts now expect the currency to follow eurozone economic growth higher  leaving behind it a long period of weakness.
Merkel's Conservative Party Secures Big Victory in State Election: Chancellor Angela Merkel's conservative party on Sunday secured a surprisingly big victory in Germany's northernmost state  according to initial results  dashing hopes from the rival center-left Social Democrats ahead of the national vote in September.
Merkel Expresses Caution on Macron's Eurozone Ideas: Chancellor Angela Merkel on Monday said she was open to French President-elect Emmanuel Macron's ideas on reforming France and Europe  but made clear that Germany wasn't prepared to make any quick concessions.
Macron Wins: Now Can Europe Do What Investors Want?
: Emmanuel Macron's victory is the most definitive sign yet that Europe has resisted the populist political tide embodied by Brexit and Donald Trump.
While markets anticipated the win  the next test will be whether the renewed sense of solidarity leads to progress on issues that have long dogged the economic bloc  writes Richard Barley.
Macron Win Slows March of Euroskeptics: The victory of Emmanuel Macron and his upstart pro-European party in France marks a significant pushback against nationalist parties that have challenged the existence of the European Union over the past year.
France's Macron Finds Ally in Bid to Reform EU in Fellow Newcomer From Estonia: Tiny Estonia takes on an outsize role next month when it assumes the EU's rotating presidency and kicks off Brexit talks.
Estonian President Kersti Kaljulaid  like France's Emmanuel Macron  has a vision of a reformed Europe.
Why Macron's Win Is Good for Europe's Worst-Off Banks: Emmanuel Macron's victory as French president should be good news for all European banks - not just those in France  but Greek and Italian ones too  writes Paul J. Davies.
Facebook Fake News Fight Moves to U.K.
Elections: Facebook Inc. on Monday ran advertisements in major British newspapers that give advice on how to spot false news stories  in an attempt to stem the spread of misinformation on the massive social network ahead of next month's U.K. parliamentary elections.
The Arctic: Source of Conflict or Cooperation?
: A meeting this week of the Arctic Council  an intergovernmental established 20 years ago of the U.S.  Canada  Russia  Sweden  Finland  Denmark  Norway and Iceland  carries extra significance at a time of heightened geopolitical tension  writes Simon Nixon.
IN THE PAPERS     Emmanuel Macron's Foreign Policy Doctrine(s) -- Politico     Will Macron Mean the Blues or a Boost for Brexit?
-- BBC News     Tories Seek to Keep Campaign Spotlight on Theresa May --      Banks Planning to Move 9 000 Jobs from Britain Because of Brexit -- Reuters     City Firms Say They Won't Be Ready for Brexit in Two Years       For breaking news and intelligence on Brexit  finance  markets  deals and people from London  download  City  for iPhone  or  Android smartphone.
And you can find more analysis of politics  economics and regulation in the European Union over on  Real Time Brussels.
(END)     May 08  2017 14:52 ET (18:52 GMT)