By Del Quentin Wilber and Michael C. Bender  President Donald Trump on Tuesday unexpectedly fired FBI Director James Comey  plunging the capital into confusion and immediately intensifying calls for a special prosecutor to assume control of the highly sensitive investigation into possible ties between the Trump campaign and Russia.
The reason for the firing  according to White House and Justice Department officials  was Mr. Comey's much-criticized handling of an investigation into Hillary Clinton's use of a private email server while secretary of state.
The White House said Mr. Trump relied on the recommendations of Attorney General Jeff Sessions and Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein.
The Trump administration released a memo dated Tuesday from Mr. Rosenstein who offered a blistering assessment of Mr. Comey's conduct  calling his actions "troubling" and saying he had harmed the FBI's credibility and had refused to learn from his errors.
Mr. Comey's chief spokesman at the FBI  Michael Kortan  didn't return phone calls seeking comment.
Sarah Isgur Flores  a Justice Department spokeswoman  referred calls to the White House  which issued a short statement from Mr. Trump that said "today will mark a new beginning for our crown jewel of law enforcement."
The startling action is likely to raise as many questions as it answers and result in long-term fallout  thrusting the Russia probe in particular into unknown territory.
Mr. Trump will face enormous pressure to choose a figure who is beyond reproach to replace Mr. Comey.
It will be up to Mr. Rosenstein whether to name a special prosecutor  and he  too  will face great pressure to do so.
The FBI is currently investigating whether members of Mr. Trump's campaign collaborated with the Russian government to influence the presidential election.
Mr. Trump and his staff have dismissed allegations of Russian collusion  and Russia has denied interfering in the election.
Democrats were quick to stress the questions raised by a president firing an individual who is in the middle of investigating his administration and campaign.
The move also highlighted the fraught position of FBI directors  who are often caught between the need to pursue investigations in an impartial way and the political storms in which they operate.
The memo  and the White House efforts to paint the decision as one tied directly to the unfair handling of the Clinton email probe  were blasted by Democrats.
They pointed out that Mr. Trump had chastised Mr. Comey on the campaign trail for not seeking charges against Mrs. Clinton for sending and receiving classified information on a private email system.
Democrats also called the firing "Nixonian" and urged the Justice Department to appoint a special prosecutor to investigate potential collusion between Moscow and the Trump campaign  something that Mr. Rosenstein has resisted.
They immediately compared Mr. Trump's move to the notorious Saturday Night Massacre in 1973  when the attorney general and the deputy attorney general resigned after refusing President Richard Nixon's order to fire a special prosecutor investigating the Watergate scandal.
"The President's actions today make it clear to me that a Special Counsel also must be appointed " Sen. Mark Warner (D.  Va.)  the ranking member of the Senate Intelligence Committee  which is conducting a probe into the alleged Russian interference  said in a statement.
"That's the only way the American people will be able to trust the results of any DOJ investigation."
Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer (D.  N.Y.) said: "If Deputy Attorney General Rosenstein does not appoint an independent special prosecutor  every American will rightly suspect that the decision to fire Director Comey was part of a cover-up."
Richard Burr  the Republican chairman of the Intelligence Committee  said in a statement: "I am troubled by the timing and reasoning of Director Comey's termination.
I have found Director Comey to be a public servant of the highest order  and his dismissal further confuses an already difficult investigation by the Committee."
Sen. John McCain (R.  Ariz.) has been calling for a special bipartisan congressional committee  separate from the House and Senate Intelligence committees  to investigate Russian meddling in the election  but Republican leaders have so far rejected that request.
He said "the president's decision to remove the FBI Director only confirms the need and the urgency of such a committee."
The firing of an FBI director is a rare occurrence in the nation's history.
After the decadeslong tenure of J. Edgar Hoover  who died in 1972 and was widely seen to have abused his position  directors were given 10-year terms in an attempt to insulate them from politics and prevent them from amassing power  although they serve at the president's pleasure.
Before Mr. Comey  only one previous FBI director had been fired -- William Sessions  dismissed by President Bill Clinton in 1993 after a probe found various ethical lapses.
In a letter to Mr. Comey informing him of his dismissal  the president wrote  "While I greatly appreciate you informing me  on three separate occasions  that I am not under investigation  I nevertheless concur with the judgment of the Department of Justice that you are not able to effectively lead the Bureau."
The three discussions Mr. Trump cited weren't previously known.
It would be unusual for the president and FBI to have such conversations  and it isn't clear why they would have any relevance to Mr. Comey's dismissal.
"It is essential that we find new leadership for the FBI that restores public trust and confidence in its vital law enforcement mission " Mr. Trump wrote in the letter.
In an email to FBI employees  Mr.
Sessions said the president "has exercised his lawful authority" to remove the director from office.
The job is now in the hands of Andrew McCabe  the deputy director  he said  thanking the employees for their "steadfast dedication and commitment during this time of transition."
Mr.
Sessions  an ardent Trump backer during the campaign  in February recused himself from handling any aspect of the department's investigations into the Trump campaign or potential collusion between associates of the campaign and the Kremlin to help him win.
Mr.
Sessions took that step only after it emerged that he had met with the Russian ambassador to the U.S. during the campaign  despite having told senators during his confirmation hearing he hadn't met with any Russian officials.
Mr. Comey was in the FBI's Los Angeles headquarters when he learned of his firing  according to a law-enforcement official.
Before he left the office  he addressed hundreds of employees and offered them encouragement  this official said  adding that the mood was "somber."
One delay in his firing may have been the related to the need for Mr. Rosenstein to take office and provide the justification for such a dramatic action.
Sworn in last month  Mr. Rosenstein was seen as a relatively nonpolitical figure who had served as the top federal prosecutor in Maryland in both the Bush and Obama administrations.
To buttress the case for Mr. Comey's termination  the White House released Mr. Rosenstein's three-page critique of Mr. Comey's handling of the email investigation.
Relying in part on public statements by former Justice Department officials of both parties who were critical of Mr. Comey  Mr. Rosenstein said he couldn't defend the director's decision to hold a news conference on July 5 to announce he wouldn't charge Mrs. Clinton or release "derogatory" information about the subject of an investigation.
In that same news conference  Mr. Comey rebuked Mrs. Clinton and her aides for being "extremely careless" for using a private email system to conduct official business.
He said Mrs. Clinton had been reckless with the nation's secrets.
Mr. Rosenstein said Mr. Comey's actions at the news conference badly damaged the FBI's reputation and the bureau isn't likely to regain the trust of the public or Congress "until it has a director who understands the gravity of the mistakes" he had made.
"I cannot defend the director's handling of the conclusion of the investigation of Secretary Clinton's emails  and I do not understand his refusal to accept the nearly universal judgment that he was mistaken " Mr. Rosenstein wrote.
Mr. Rosenstein foreshadowed his action in an interview with The  last month  saying that prosecutors generally only spoke in court  or as prescribed by Justice Department rules.
The announcement caught Washington and even top White House officials by surprise.
At a news briefing just a few hours before the Trump administration announced the termination  White House press secretary Sean Spicer was asked whether the president still had full confidence in Mr. Comey.
"I have no reason to believe -- I haven't asked him " Mr. Spicer said.
Appointed by President Obama in 2013  Mr. Comey wasn't yet six full years in a 10-year term.
He was most recently receiving updates on the bureau's most high-profile and secretive investigation  that of potential collusion between Trump associates and the Russian government to influence the election.
Mr. Comey has made few friends on either side of the aisle.
When he announced his decision to recommend the Justice Department not seek charges against Mrs. Clinton  he was chastised by Republicans.
"Although there is evidence of potential violations of the statutes regarding the handling of classified information  our judgment is that no reasonable prosecutor would bring such a case " Mr. Comey said.
On Oct 28  just 11 days before the election  he created a political storm by sending a letter to Congress informing lawmakers that his agents had discovered new emails that might be pertinent to the email investigation.
They had been discovered on the computer of one of Mrs. Clinton's aides in an unrelated matter.
(MORE TO FOLLOW)     May 09  2017 23:18 ET (03:18 GMT)