WASHINGTON -- Makan Delrahim  President Donald Trump's nominee to be the Justice Department's antitrust chief  said Wednesday politics would play no role in his enforcement of U.S. competition laws  even if the White House has made comments on a pending merger.
Mr. Trump caused a stir during last year's presidential campaign when he criticized AT&T Inc.'s proposed acquisition of Time Warner Inc. and pledged to block it.
It would be highly unusual for a president to attempt to intervene in a Justice Department decision on whether to challenge a merger.
The department is continuing to take a close look at the AT&T deal  a level of scrutiny that was expected given the size  complexity and importance of the transaction.
Antitrust enforcement investigations "should be free from any political influence.
They will be free if I'm fortunate enough to be confirmed " Mr. Delrahim said during his nomination hearing before the Senate Judiciary Committee.
Mr. Delrahim was one of three Justice Department nominees before the committee Wednesday.
All breezed through a hearing that lasted less than an hour  as senators signaled they were preoccupied with Mr. Trump's surprise dismissal of FBI Director James Comey Tuesday evening.
Sen. Dianne Feinstein (D.  Calif.) used the hearing to raise questions about the timing and reasons behind Mr. Comey's removal.
Sen. John Kennedy of Louisiana  the junior Republican on the committee  closed the hearing by joking that there was an opening at the FBI if any of the nominees were interested.
Mr. Delrahim currently serves as deputy White House counsel  where his work has focused heavily on judicial nominations.
He has a long record in antitrust law  both in private practice and in previous government work.
He was a Justice Department antitrust lawyer during the George W. Bush administration and served on a bipartisan commission created by Congress to study the modernization of antitrust laws.
Mr. Delrahim fielded only a few questions during Wednesday's hearing.
Federal antitrust law has been traditionally enforced in a bipartisan manner  "and I hope that continues " he told senators.
The nominee said he intended to make international antitrust issues a focus  expressing concern that some overseas jurisdictions were using antitrust enforcement improperly to protect domestic businesses at the expense of U.S. companies.
Mr. Delrahim's legal views are considered to be in the traditional conservative mold.
Republican antitrust enforcers have tended to be less interventionist than Democrats  though officials from both parties have brought cases against problematic mergers and prosecuted criminal violations like price-fixing.
The Obama administration was aggressive in challenging mergers  bringing some cases that a Republican might not.
Mr. Delrahim declined to critique the last administration's record  saying he wasn't privy to the facts and evidence the department relied upon in making its decisions.
Mr. Delrahim reiterated that he would recuse himself from the Justice Department's continuing litigation against health insurer Anthem Inc.'s bid to acquire Cigna Corp. That is because he did some legal work for Anthem on the transaction when he was in private practice.
The department sued to block the deal and won in court in February.
The government also won on appeal last month.
Anthem hopes to beat the odds and persuade the Supreme Court to hear the case  but it also has said it hopes to negotiate some kind of settlement with the Justice Department now that the Obama team that originally filed the lawsuit is gone.
There is no indication  however  that the department  with two court victories in hand  is interested in any such settlement.
While there have been sharp political disagreements over some of Mr. Trump's nominees  Mr. Delrahim's nomination has received bipartisan support.
A dozen previous Justice Department antitrust heads  including those who served in the Obama administration  have signed a letter in support of the nomination.
It isn't clear when the Senate might vote on Mr. Delrahim.
Mr. Trump has been slower than other recent presidents to fill antitrust enforcement posts at the Justice Department and the Federal Trade Commission  creating uncertainty for companies with matters pending at the agencies.
(END)     May 10  2017 14:28 ET (18:28 GMT)