0850 ET - AT&T (T) CEO Randall Stephenson says he's "still optimistic" Congress can quickly overhaul corporate taxes  citing generally bipartisan consensus.
The telecom boss tells investors at JPMorgan's annual conference that meetings with House speaker Paul Ryan and others left him confident lawmakers can get it done  though it would mean sacrificing other tax breaks.
Bonus depreciation  for instance  "is going to have to go to get that rate down " he says  even though it helps telecom companies accelerate write-offs for capital investments.
Stephenson also wants new legislation spelling out the FCC's limited oversight authority  adding "hopefully we can get something done in the next 18 months."
(andrew.fitzgerald; @drewfitzgerald)     0656 ET - Oil prices have climbed in recent sessions on expectations that OPEC will extend their current production deal  but don't expect much of a rally from here  says James Butterfill  head of research at ETF Securities.
There are building downward pressures on prices  namely U.S. frackers who are suddenly profitable again  he says.
"Our view is the oil price will continue to range trade from $40-50 a barrel " he says  although he flags an upside risk if expectations grow for U.S. President Donald Trump to take a fairly hard line on Iran  causing investors to expect sanctions to be re-instated.
(riva.gold)     2301 ET - It's common for a risk-off event  such as last week's bout of drama in the White House  to be characterized by a decline in US stocks and a rise in the yen.
That relationship is quite strong right now.
The one-month correlation between the S&P 500 and the dollar-yen exchange rate almost doubled last week  hitting a more-than one-year high of 80%  according to Credit Suisse.
"In a sign the broader risk-off sentiment is spreading  cross-asset correlations have started hitting extremes " analyst Mandy Xu writes in a note.
(saumya.vaishampayan; @saumvaish)     1943 ET - Tesla (TSLA) CEO Elon Musk is "cautiously optimistic" after speaking to Trump about the Paris agreement on climate change.
He revealed the communication on Twitter in response to a social-media message asking Trump to stay in the accord.
"I spoke directly with The President three weeks ago about Paris " Musk wrote.
"Many others have too.
Cautiously optimistic of a positive decision."
(tim.higgins; @timkhiggins)     1852 ET - A forensic expert hired by the lawyers of Brazil's President Michel Temer says recordings prosecutors are using as evidence of corruption can't be taken as authentic.
Ricardo Molina says the recordings contain "more than 50" points at which there could have been some sort of illegal editing  but stopped short of labeling the tape adulterated.
He says  however  that it has enough problems  including too much noise  to be discarded as evidence.
The recordings are at the core of recent graft accusations fueling calls for Temer's ousting.
Temer's defense declined to comment how exactly they will use Molina's findings.
0    Food-industry officials and advocates    1823 ET - Food-industry officials and advocates are bracing for the Trump administration to unveil a proposal Tuesday to cut food-stamp program spending by $193B over a decade.
"The program still plays an important role in providing a safety net to those in need  including families with children  the elderly  and disabled " says Greg Ferrara of the National Grocers Association  which represents more than 1 300 independent grocers.
The SNAP cuts would represent a 29% reduction in funding from levels estimated in January by the Congressional Budget Office.