HIGHLIGHTS      -- Ex-FBI Chief Robert Mueller III to Lead Russia Probe   -- Republicans Back More Active Role in Trump Probes   -- Israeli Source Seen Key to Countering ISIS   -- Trump Meets With Candidates to Lead FBI   -- Russian State-Run Bank Financed Deal Involving Trump Hotel Partner     RUSSIA PROBE GETS SPECIAL COUNSEL: Former FBI Director Robert Mueller III was appointed Wednesday as special counsel to oversee the federal investigation into Russia's alleged interference in the 2016 U.S. presidential election  giving him wide latitude to explore potential collusion between the Trump campaign and Moscow.
Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein said in a statement he was naming a special counsel due to the inquiry's "unique circumstances."
The public interest  he said  "requires me to place this investigation under the authority of a person who exercises a degree of independence from the normal chain of command."
Mr. Rosenstein cautioned that his decision wasn't the result of a "finding that crimes have been committed or that any prosecution is warranted."
He said he has made no such determination.
Mr. Mueller's appointment as special counsel in the Russia probe brings the   72-year-old former FBI director   back into the political fire  a place where he has long managed to survive  and thrive with his credibility largely unscathed.
Del Quentin Wilber and Aruna Viswanatha report .
What is a special counsel?
Under federal regulations from 1999  the attorney general may appoint a temporary special counsel from outside the Justice Department to conduct a criminal probe into a particularly sensitive matter and to potentially prosecute related wrongdoing.
While the special counsel isn't subject to day-to-day supervision  Mr. Mueller can be asked to report to the attorney general -- or in this case  the deputy attorney general  because the attorney general has recused himself -- about "any investigative or prosecutorial step."
Here's more about the role .
Read the  Justice Department order appointing Mr. Mueller  and check here to see updates throughout the day ... Stocks in Europe and Asia declined  Thursday on growing nerves about the future of President Donald Trump's agenda and sharp moves in the dollar jarred financial markets.
STORIES YOU SHOULDN'T MISS     CONGRESS STEPS UP PROBES INTO COMEY AND RUSSIA: Congress is ratcheting up its investigative and oversight apparatus by seeking documents  memos and other evidence related to the controversies that have buffeted President Donald Trump in recent weeks.
At least three congressional panels -- the House Oversight Committee  the Senate Intelligence Committee and the Senate Judiciary Committee -- all demanded memos that fomer FBI Director James Comey kept about his conversations with the president.
The Judiciary Committee also sought any tapes of the conversation that might exist  and two panels requested Mr. Comey's in-person testimony.
Congress's more proactive approach is being sanctioned by Republican leaders in both the House and Senate  as lawmakers seek Mr. Comey's version of a private meeting he had with Mr. Trump in February when the GOP president allegedly urged him to drop his probe into former national security adviser Michael Flynn.
Byron Tau  Natalie Andrews and Reid J. Epstein report .
TRUMP MEETS WITH FOUR CANDIDATES TO LEAD FBI: President Trump  met with four candidates to lead the FBI  including Acting Director Andrew McCabe and former Sen. Joe Lieberman  the White House said.
The meetings  which took place at the White House Wednesday afternoon  came as his administration is pressing to quickly pick the next FBI director before the president leaves on a nine-day foreign trip on Friday.
Rebecca Ballhaus  Del Quentin Wilber and Aruna Viswanatha report .
ISRAELI SOURCE SEEN AS KEY TO COUNTERING ISIS THREAT: The classified information that President Trump shared with Russian officials last week came from an Israeli source described by multiple U.S. officials as the most valuable source of information on external plotting by Islamic State.
These officials  who are privy to intelligence about the terrorist group's efforts  said the source of information was particularly valuable for tracking Islamic State's attempts to place explosive devices on commercial airplanes.
Shane Harris reports .
Plus: Russian President Vladimir Putin said his foreign minister didn't divulge any U.S. secrets after a meeting with Mr. Trump last week.
RUSSIAN STATE-OWNED BANK FINANCED TRUMP HOTEL PARTNER:  A Russian-Canadian developer put money into a Donald Trump hotel project in Toronto after receiving hundreds of millions from a deal involving Russian state-run bank VEB.
U.S. investigators are looking into any ties between Russian financial institutions  Mr. Trump and anyone in his orbit  according to a person familiar with the probe.
May 18  2017 08:01 ET (12:01 GMT)