By Matthew Dalton  PARIS-- Emmanuel Macron was sworn in as the president of France on Sunday  launching the 39-year-old's efforts to overhaul the French economy and reinforce the European Union.
At the start of a ceremony at the & In his first speech shortly after  Mr. Macron said France under his presidency would act as a bulwark for the international community.
"The world and Europe today more than ever need France " he said.
"They need a France strong and sure of its destiny."
After 45 minutes  Mr. Macron escorted Mr. Hollande to a waiting car  which drove him from the palace.
Then Mr. Macron proceeded to a ceremony on the other side of the palace  where the results of last week's election were read out and Mr. Macron officially became president.
Sunday's ceremony caps a remarkable rise for Mr. Macron that is remaking France's political order.
Working as an investment banker just five years ago  he swept into office by sidestepping France's mainstream political parties  which for decades have groomed France's leaders.
Instead  Mr. Macron decided to form his own party  En Marche  or On the Move  13 months ago.
Now the party is fielding hundreds of candidates in France's upcoming legislative elections  half of whom are newcomers to politics and owe their political fortunes to Mr. Macron.
Mr. Macron a week ago won the presidential election in a landslide against Marine Le Pen  a far-right nationalist who sought to pull France from the EU and close the country's borders.
He ran as a staunch defender of the bloc and a business-friendly centrist who would shake up France's tightly regulated economy.
Mr. Macron's first order of business will be tending to France's relationship with Germany  the country's most important ally.
Mr. Macron is scheduled to fly to Berlin on Monday to meet with German Chancellor Angela Merkel.
Under high security in a city repeatedly hit by terror attacks in recent years  Mr. Macron's car left his apartment Sunday morning in the 7th arrondissement of Paris  headed across the Seine river  and arrived at the & France remains in a state of emergency  declared shortly after the terror attacks of November 2015.
The emergency regime allows security forces to consign people deemed to be security threats to house arrest  conduct searches without judicial approval and taken other measures that are forbidden by the French constitution under normal circumstances.
(END)   May 14  2017 06:20 ET (10:20 GMT)