A leading candidate to be the next director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation  Sen. John Cornyn (R.  Texas)  withdrew from consideration Tuesday  providing another sign that a partisan figure might have a hard time winning confirmation to the influential law-enforcement post.
"Now more than ever the country needs a well-credentialed  independent FBI director " Mr. Cornyn said.
"I've informed the administration that I'm committed to helping them find such an individual  and that the best way I can serve is continuing to fight for a conservative agenda in the U.S.
Senate."
Mr. Cornyn pulled out of the running one day after another high-profile Republican  Rep. Trey Gowdy  of South Carolina  said he didn't want to be considered because he wasn't the right person for the job.
Mr. Gowdy stressed that the FBI and the nation needed someone who could "unite the country."
A former federal prosecutor  Mr. Gowdy headed a House probe into the 2012 terror attacks on a U.S. compound in Benghazi  Libya  an inquiry that sharply divided Republicans and Democrats.
Their decisions underscored the difficulty a Republican officeholder might face in winning confirmation in the aftermath of President Donald Trump's abrupt firing of Director James Comey.
Republicans as well as Democrats have urged Mr. Trump to name someone from outside politics  and Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R.  Ky.) told Bloomberg News Tuesday Mr. Trump should choose an "apolitical" director.
The push to find a new director of the FBI was eclipsed somewhat Tuesday by reports that Mr. Trump had disclosed sensitive material to Russian officials  but the White House continues to say it hopes to move quickly to fill the post.
The FBI director post has generally gone to a former top federal prosecutor or senior law-enforcement official  not a political figure  and the current vacancy may be especially sensitive because Mr. Comey was spearheading the FBI investigation into whether Mr. Trump's campaign or associates colluded with the Russian government in meddling in the 2016 election.
Russia and Mr. Trump have denied any wrongdoing.
Mr. Cornyn's announcement came as associates of a dark-horse candidate  U.S.
Circuit Judge Merrick Garland  said he wasn't interested in the job.
Judge Garland was tapped last year by then-President Barack Obama to be a justice on the Supreme Court  only to see his nomination stymied by Senate Republicans  who held the seat open for Mr. Trump's eventual appointee  now-Justice Neil Gorsuch.
Utah Sen. Mike Lee and other Republicans  including Mr. McConnell  had suggested Judge Garland would be a good choice because he wasn't seen as partisan and would win confirmation.
But Democrats have signaled they didn't want to lose Judge Garland on the influential U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C.
Circuit.
Judge Garland wasn't among at least eight people interviewed on Saturday at the Justice Department by Attorney General Jeff Sessions and Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein.
The remaining known candidates all fit the mold of recent directors who have had federal law-enforcement experience.
Among them is Mike Rogers  a former Republican congressman who also served as an FBI agent and who has won the recent backing of an association that represents current and retired FBI agents.
Others are Michael Garcia  a New York state judge and former U.S. attorney; Alice Fisher  a Justice Department official in the Bush administration; and two top FBI officials  including current Acting Director Andrew McCabe.
Justice Department officials cautioned that Mr.
Sessions  Mr. Rosenstein and White House staffers were still assessing candidates and no final decision had been made on whom to recommend to Mr. Trump.
The president has said he hopes to quickly tap someone to run the bureau  which has 13 000 agents and 35 000 employees and investigates crimes ranging from bank robbery to terrorism.
(END)     May 17  2017 02:32 ET (06:32 GMT)