By William Horobin  PARIS--The French were voting Sunday in the deciding round of a presidential election that has sidelined mainstream parties and redrawn French politics as a contest between globalists and nationalists.
After candidates from the parties that long governed France were knocked out in the first round on April 23  the runoff pits Marine Le Pen  leader of the anti-immigration National Front  against Emmanuel Macron  a political neophyte who founded his pro-European Union party  En Marche  barely a year ago.
At 5 p.m.  65.3% of voters had cast ballots  compared with 71.96% at the same time in the 2012 election.
Using the turnout figures from the government  polling company Ipsos Sopra-Steria estimated that the final level of abstention will be 26%  the highest since the 1969 election.
Polls conducted before voting began predicted Mr. Macron would win the vote with a 20-percentage-point margin  a result that would come as a relief to defenders of the EU after a long streak of advances by nationalist leaders on the continent.
Even if she loses with 40%  however  Ms.
Le Pen could still seek to build on her results--expected to be the best for a far-right presidential candidate in modern French history--to become a powerful opposition leader  and further promote her protectionist ideas.
"Marine Le Pen at 40% across France in a presidential election would already be colossal " said J& The two candidates are offering to steer France in polar-opposite directions.
Ms.
Le Pen pledges to extricate the country from the EU and the euro  shutting borders to immigrants and cheap imports she says harm the domestic economy.
Mr. Macron says France should embrace the EU and not fear globalization  vowing unpopular overhauls of labor laws to make the country more competitive.
"I am the candidate of the nation that protects; protects our jobs  security and borders " Ms.
Le Pen said in a TV debate with Mr. Macron on Wednesday.
Mr. Macron said isolationism would lead to defeat.
"I represent the mind-set of conquest " he said.
A narrow victory for Mr. Macron would erode the authority of a candidate already relying on the support of millions of voters who reject his policies but who say they will vote for him anyway to bar Ms.
Le Pen from reaching the presidency.
A poll by BVA this week showed about two thirds of people intending to vote for Mr. Macron were doing so to block Ms.
Le Pen or because they see him as the least-bad option.
After casting his ballot in Ris-Orangis  20 miles south of Paris  Maurice Attuil said he reluctantly voted for Mr. Macron.
"I didn't want either.
I voted for Macron because we don't really have a choice.
I don't want to vote for extremists.
Macron was part of the last government that did nothing " said Mr. Attuil  a 63-year-old plumber.
Pascal Martin  a 49-year-old English teacher in Paris  voted for Ms.
Le Pen.
"It's a vote against the main parties and the political mainstream  " he said.
"These guys and Macron in particular just think about themselves.
Macron is from finance and I'll never  ever be able to vote for him."
Mr. Macron's party was hit by a hacking scandal in the final moments of the campaign Friday evening when thousands of emails and documents purporting to come from the party were posted on the internet.
En Marche said authentic documents obtained from the hacking of email accounts were mixed with fakes "with the goal of sowing doubt and disinformation."
The timing of the document dump Friday indicates the hackers calculated the leak to inflict maximum damage.
Because of election laws in France  En Marche and Mr. Macron were prohibited from communicating about the authenticity of the documents Saturday and until all polls close Sunday at 8 p.m.
If Mr. Macron wins  the first hurdle he would face would be securing a majority in legislative elections in mid-June.
His upstart political movement has refused to seal alliances with mainstream parties  and has only named a handful of candidates it intends to field in the 577 seats up for grabs.
If Mr. Macron fails to secure a majority  he would have to seek ad hoc alliances with opposition parties or could even be forced into a so-called "cohabitation"--a form of power-sharing under which a prime minister from the opposition runs the government.
"Mr. Macron is 39 years old and has come from nowhere to end up president.
To continue to assert himself it is important to get more than 60% in the presidential election " said Bruno Jeanbart at polling company Opinionway.
"A 57% score would be catastrophic."
Alexis Reguigne  an architect in Paris  said the margin of a Macron victory was crucial for sending a message.
"If Mr. Macron gets a large majority--beyond 70%  twice as many votes as Marine Le Pen--then that's a clear opposition to extremism.
What's been announced is insufficient.
She needs to be well beaten  even if it is very important to understand why so many people are voting for her " said Mr. Reguigne  who refused to indicate how he had voted.
It isn't the first time the National Front has reached the second round of a presidential election.
In 2002  Ms.
Le Pen's father  Jean-Marie Le Pen  qualified for a runoff against conservative Jacques Chirac.
After he lost with less than 18% of the vote  the National Front retreated to a protest movement.
Since taking over from her father in 2011  Ms.
Le Pen has sought to broaden her party's appeal and distance herself from the xenophobic legacy of her father.
Ms.
Le Pen's strategy has been on display between the two rounds of the election as she attempted to reach out to all sides of the political spectrum.
She went after blue-collar votes by posing for photos with workers at a factory threatened with closure  just before Mr. Macron was due at the same site.
She has struck an alliance with a smaller nationalist movement  and courted conservative voters by hammering her proposals on security and French identity.
Regardless of her vote tally  Ms.
Le Pen has succeeded in setting the campaign's agenda  said Sylvain Cr& "The entire French political landscape is still positioning itself around National Front themes " he said.
(END)     May 07  2017 11:15 ET (15:15 GMT)