By Nathan Hodge  MOSCOW -- Russian President Vladimir Putin said his government didn't meddle in the politics of other countries  dismissing allegations of interference in the 2016 U.S. presidential election as "simply rumors."
In a press conference Tuesday with German Chancellor Angela Merkel  Mr. Putin denied any intent to interfere in upcoming elections in Europe.
"Seeing all the perniciousness and futility of such efforts  it never occurred to us to interfere in the political processes of other countries " Mr. Putin said in response to a question about what U.S. intelligence officials have described as a campaign of hacking and disinformation.
Russian interference in the American election "has not been confirmed by anyone and has in no way been proven  it's simply rumors used in domestic political infighting in America " Mr. Putin added.
The German and Russian leaders met in the Black Sea resort city of Sochi amid continued friction between the Kremlin and the West over Middle East policy and the crisis in Ukraine.
Relations between the Kremlin and the West have remained at rock bottom since Russia's annexation of Crimea from Ukraine in 2014 and the imposition of Western sanctions on Moscow.
Russia's military intervention in Syria has also sharpened confrontation with the U.S. and its European allies.
On her last meeting with Mr. Putin on Russian soil in 2015  Ms. Merkel took a more combative stance  chiding her counterpart over what she called the "criminal and illegal annexation of Crimea."
But the German chancellor also raised another sensitive issue for the Kremlin: Reports of the detention  abuse and disappearance of gay men in the Muslim-majority republic of Chechnya.
Both France and Germany have national elections this year  and European leaders have been unsettled by what they see as Russian attempts to interfere through propaganda and cyberattacks.
Earlier this year  German Finance Minister Wolfgang Sch& Speaking in the same press conference  Ms. Merkel said the German government will deal with "gross disinformation " and referred to a distorted news story that caused a furor in Russian-language media and sparked anti-migrant protests early last year.
But she also downplayed fears of Russian interference and "hybrid warfare" -- shorthand for Russia's use of information warfare in tandem with political or military confrontation.
"I can only say that I don't belong to the group of fearful people " she said.
"We know that the issue of cyber crime is an international challenge and hybrid warfare plays a role in the Russian military doctrine.
But as I said before  I confidently assume that we can conduct the election campaign among Germans unscathed."
(END)     May 02  2017 12:19 ET (16:19 GMT)